# The Basics of Dynamic Web Pages

## First View - dynamic content
Let's create a Web page that displays the current date and time.
It's *dynamic* in the sense that the content of the page is not static, but a result of a computation (in this case, the curent time).
To create this page, we'll write a *view function*.

```python
from django.http import HttpResponse
import datetime

def current_datetime(request):
    now = datetime.datetime.now()
    html = "<html><body>It is now %s.</body></html>" % now
    return HttpResponse(html)
```
- First, we import the class HttpResponse.
- Then we import datetime module that contains several functions and classes for dealing wth dates and times, including a function that returns the current time.
- Next we define the current_datetime function, the *view* function. We obtain now as a datetime function and then we build the HTML response using Python's format string capability.
- Then, we return the HttpResponse object with the generated response.

Django includes a TIME_ZONE settings that defaults to UTC, so you might want to change it in settings.py

Note that the name of the view function doesn't matter.


## Mapping URLs to Views
We tell Django to use this view on *URLconfs*. It's the table of contents for the Django-powered Web site, the mapping between URL patterns and the view functions that should be called.

It needs to be edited in ```urls.py```. First import the view function by doing ```from mysite.views import current_datetime```.
Then add another line within url patterns this way:

```python
urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path('time/', current_datetime),
]
```
Now check ```http://127.0.0.1:8000/time/```!
## How Django process a request
- The command ```python manage.py runserver``` imports ```settings.py```, and looks at ROOT_URLCONF, which tells Django which Python module should be used as the URL for this website (all was handled when we initiated the project using ```startproject```).
- When the /time request comes in, Django loads the URLconf pointed to by the ROOT_URLCONF setting, checking each of the patterns in order, comparing the requested URL with any of them one at a time, until it finds one that matches.
- One it found it, it calls the view function associated with it, passing an HTTPRequest object as the first parameter.

## Loose Coupling
Loose coupling is a software development approach that values the importance of making pieces interchangeable. If two pieces of code are loosely coupled, then changes made to one of the pieces will have little to no effect on the other.
Consider the view function we wrote earlier. If we wanted to change the URL for the application, we could make a quick change to URLconf, without having to worry about the underlying implementation of the function; similarily, if we want to change the view function we could do that without affecting the URL to which the function is bound. Furthermore, if we wanted to expose the current-date functionality at several URLs, we could take care of that easily by editing the URLconf, without touching the view code.

That's loose coupling in action.

## Dynamic URLs
The URL in our first view was /time, which is static. In most Web apps, URL must contain parameters that influence the output of the page.
Let's create a second view that displays the current date and time offset by a certain number of hours: the goal is to craft a site in such a way that the page /time/plus/1 displays the datetime one hour into the future, time/plus/2 two hours into the future, and so on, without coding a separate view function for each hour offset.

DON'T REPEAT YOURSELF.

### Pretty URLs
One of Django's core philosophies is that __URL should be beautiful__. Pretty URL are a sign of a quality Web app.

## Wildcard urlpatterns
