# The Django Template System
You may have noticed that the HTML was hard-coded directly in our Python code. This lead to several issues:
- Any change on the design requires a complete rewrite of that piece of code.
- Writing Python code and designing HTML are two different disciplines, and designers shouldn't have to edit Python code to get their job done.
- It's also more efficient if programmers can work on code and designers can work on templates at the same time, rather than one person waiting for the other to finish editing a combined Python/HTML file.

## Template System Basics
A template is a string of text that is intended to separate the presentation of a document from its data. It defines a placeholder and various bits of basic logic that regulate how the document should be displayed.

```html
<html>
<head><title>Ordering notice</title></head>
<body>
<p>Dear {{ person_name }},</p>
<p>Thanks for placing an order from {{ company }}. It's scheduled to
ship on {{ ship_date|date:"F j, Y" }}.</p>
<p>Here are the items you've ordered:</p>
<ul>
{% for item in item_list %}
<li>{{ item }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
{% if ordered_warranty %}
<p>Your warranty information will be included in the packaging.</p>
{% endif %}
<p>Sincerely,<br />{{ company }}</p>
</body>
</html>
```

+ Any text surrounded by a pair of braces ( like {{ person_name}}) is a *variable*
+ Any text surrounded by curly braces and percent signs (e.g., {% if ordered_warranty %}) is a tag: it tells the template system to _do something_: for loops, if clauses, etc.
+ Finally, the second paragraph of this template has a _filter_, with which we can alter the display of a variable: {{ ship_date|date:"F j, Y" }}.

Each Django template has access to several built-in tags and filter, and it's also possible to create your own filters and tags.

## Using the Template system
1. Create a Template object by proiding the raw template code as string.
2. Call the render method of the Template object with a given set of variables (i.e., the context). This returns a fully rendered template as a string, with all of the other variables and block tags evaluated according to the context.

### Creating Template Objects
The Template class lives in the django.template module, and the constructor takes one argument, the raw template code.
